docs: preload notes (#8597)
codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4: user_guide_src/source/installation/deployment.rst

PHP Preloading
==============

With PHP preloading, you can instruct the server to load essential files like functions and classes into memory during startup.
This means these elements are readily available for all requests, skipping the usual loading process and boosting your
application's performance. However, this comes at the cost of increased memory usage and requires restarting the
PHP engine for changes to take effect.

.. note:: If you want to use `Preloading <https://www.php.net/manual/en/opcache.preloading.php>`_,
    we provide a `preload script <https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/preload.php>`_.

Requirement
-----------

> Preloading for classes that are used more than once in the same server is not possible. You must isolated application to *dedicated* server,

Reviewer: The 2nd sentence is not clear. Do you mean to 1) "You must have an isolated application..." or 2) "You must isolate the application...". Either way means the same although subtle difference: 1 if you want as a requirement or 2 if you want as command. Please change as you deem okay,

Reviewer 2: Preloading is to load specified files at the web server startup. So if you try to load (require/include) the file that is already loaded, a Fatail error like `Cannot declare class XXX, because the name is already in use` occurs.

If you don't call require/include the same file more than once, it is theoretically possible to run multiple apps. However, if, for example, the two apps have different versions of the framework, only one class/function with the same name can be loaded, so one of the apps will run a different version of the class/function. 

Incidentally, CI3 has functions with the same name, such as `log_message()`, which will not work with the following error:

> Fatal error: Uncaught Error: Undefined constant "CodeIgniter\Cache\FactoriesCache\WRITEPATH" in ... /CodeIgniter4/system/Autoloader/FileLocatorCached.php:56

Also, preloading files for completely unrelated apps is only a disadvantage, so realistically, we would have one app running on one web server.

Author: I already test, have more apps in virtualhost Dev server use php8-*

1. Use handler php8-3
2. Use handler php8-2
3. Use handler php8-1
More

Its 1 handler PHP for one apps, my web server just one (Apache). Same as nginx can use more handler php

Author: I think just clearing what a mean "isolated" and "dedicated"

Reviewer 2: I haven't actually tried, but, if you have more than one PHP for a web server, you could handle more than one app with preload with one server.

Author: @kenjis @paulbalandan Check again, maybe now it's right explanation

Reviewer 2: By the way, what is "handler php8-3" exactly? Can you show sample configuration?

Author: @kenjis In Apache2

```bash
# Handler PHP
<FilesMatch \.php$>
        # For Apache
        SetHandler "proxy:unix:/run/php/php8.3-fpm.sock|fcgi://localhost"
</FilesMatch>
```

Reviewer 2: It is configuration for PHP-FPM. But our user guide is based on Apache mod_php:
https://codeigniter4.github.io/CodeIgniter4/installation/running.html#hosting-with-apache

How about this? > @ddevsr @paulbalandan 

> Using preloading requires one dedicated PHP. Normally, web servers are configured to use one PHP, so one app requires a dedicated web server.
>
> If you want to use preloading for multiple apps on one web server, configure it to use multiple PHP-FPMs, and one virtual host uses one PHP-FPM.

Reviewer: In the 2nd paragraph, do you mean to say "configure your server to use virtual hosts with multiple PHP-FPMs, with each virtual host using one PHP-FPM". I have not used PHP-FPM before so I'm not sure if what I'm saying is correct.

Reviewer 2: Yes!

Like this:
```
<VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName php81.example.com
    DocumentRoot /var/www/php81
    <Directory /var/www/php81>
        Options -Indexes +FollowSymLinks +MultiViews
        AllowOverride All
        Require all granted
    </Directory>
    <FilesMatch \.php$>
        # Apache 2.4.10+ can proxy to unix socket
        SetHandler "proxy:unix:/var/run/php/php8.1-fpm.sock|fcgi://localhost"
    </FilesMatch>
</VirtualHost>

<VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName php74.example.com
    DocumentRoot /var/www/php74
    <Directory /var/www/php74>
        Options -Indexes +FollowSymLinks +MultiViews
        AllowOverride All
        Require all granted
    </Directory>
    <FilesMatch \.php$>
        SetHandler "proxy:unix:/var/run/php/php7.4-fpm.sock|fcgi://localhost"
    </FilesMatch>
</VirtualHost>
```
https://tecadmin.net/install-multiple-php-version-apache-ubuntu/

Author: @kenjis @paulbalandan Handler PHP not just PHP-FPM. I used LSAPI too in my webserver openlitespeed

Ref : https://www.hostdime.com/kb/hd/miscellaneous/what-are-php-handlers-and-why-do-they-matter#WhatarePHPHandlersandWhyDoTheyMatter?-FCGI/FastCGI

Reviewer 2: Then, how about this?

> Using preloading requires one dedicated PHP handler. Normally, web servers are configured to use one PHP handler, so one app requires a dedicated web server.
>
> If you want to use preloading for multiple apps on one web server, configure your server to use virtual hosts with multiple PHP handlers like multiple PHP-FPMs, with each virtual host using one PHP handler.

@ddevsr LSAPI is a Server API, so it is not good word for a handler.

> The LSAPI is a highly optimized API that allows communication between LiteSpeed and third party web engines. 
https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.unix.litespeed.php#install.unix.litespeed

If you want to show the settings in LiteSpeed, add the links you put.

Author: @kenjis I am OK with that

> Using preloading requires one dedicated PHP handler. Normally, web servers are configured to use one PHP handler, so one app requires a dedicated web server.
> 
> If you want to use preloading for multiple apps on one web server, configure your server to use virtual hosts with multiple PHP handlers like multiple PHP-FPMs, with each virtual host using one PHP handler.

even if the servers are not physical machines but virtual machines or containers. Preloading keeps the relevant definitions
in memory by reading the files specified in ``opcache.preload``.

Configuration
-------------

> Open ``php.ini`` or ``xx-opcache.ini`` if you have split INI configuration in PHP, and recommendation set ``opcache.preload=/path/to/preload.php`` and ``opcache.preload_user=myuser``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open ``php.ini``, or ``xx-opcache.ini`` if you have split INI configuration in PHP, and recommend to set ``opcache.preload=/path/to/preload.php`` and ``opcache.preload_user=myuser``.
```

> 

Reviewer: Please add a note how to find the separate INI.

.. note:: ``myuser`` is user running in your web server

> Make sure you use appstater installation, If using manual installation you must change directory in include path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you use the appstater installation. If using manual installation, you must change the directory in ``include`` path.
```

PHP Preloading
==============

With PHP preloading, you can instruct the server to load essential files like functions and classes into memory during startup.
This means these elements are readily available for all requests, skipping the usual loading process and boosting your
application's performance. However, this comes at the cost of increased memory usage and requires restarting the
PHP engine for changes to take effect.

.. note:: If you want to use `Preloading <https://www.php.net/manual/en/opcache.preloading.php>`_,
    we provide a `preload script <https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/preload.php>`_.

Requirement
-----------

> Preloading for classes that are used more than once in the same handler PHP version server is not possible. You must *isolated* one application to *dedicated* handler PHP version in web server, in this example *php8-3* just handle one apps.

Reviewer 2: What is "handler PHP version server" and "php8-3" ?

PHP Preloading
==============

Every application consists of a large number of classes in many different locations.
The framework provides classes for core functionality. As defined by `PHP RFC <https://wiki.php.net/rfc/preload>`_,
Preloading is implemented as a part of the opcache on top of another (already committed) patch that introduces ``immutable``
classes and functions. They assume that the immutable part is stored in shared memory once (for all processes)
and never copied to process memory, but the variable part is specific for each process.

> The patch introduced the MAP_PTR pointer data structure, that allows pointers from SHM to process memory.

Reviewer 2: What is the point here?

Author: In this pointing how to work preload

Reviewer 2: I think that is kind of a difficult explanation.
Couldn't the explanation be a little easier?

> With PHP preloading, you can instruct the server to load essential files like functions and classes into memory during startup. This means these elements are readily available for all requests, skipping the usual loading process and boosting your application's performance. However, this comes at the cost of increased memory usage and requires restarting the PHP engine for changes to take effect.

by Google Gemini

.. note:: If you want to use `Preloading <https://www.php.net/manual/en/opcache.preloading.php>`_,
    we provide a `preload script <https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/preload.php>`_.

Requirement
-----------

> Preloading for classes that are used more than once in the same server is not possible. You must isolated application to ``dedicated`` server,

Reviewer 2: We use ` `` ` for code text.

```suggestion
Preloading for classes that are used more than once in the same server is not possible. You must isolated application to *dedicated* server,
```

.. note:: See :ref:`running-multiple-app` to make one core CodeIgniter4 to handle your multiple apps.

Configuration
-------------

Open ``php.ini`` or ``xx-opcache.ini`` if you have split INI configuration in PHP, and recommend to set ``opcache.preload=/path/to/preload.php`` and ``opcache.preload_user=myuser``.

> .. note:: ``myuser`` is user running in your web server. If you want find location split INI configuration, just run ``php --ini`` or open file ``phpinfo()`` and search *Additional .ini files parsed*.

Reviewer: I think we don't need to tell how to use phpinfo(). Just the terminal way is enough.

```suggestion
.. note:: ``myuser`` is user running in your web server. If you want to find the location of the split INI configuration, just run ``php --ini`` in your terminal.
```

Reviewer 2: No. The PHP ini files for web and CLI may be different.

> Make sure you use the appstater installation. If using manual installation, you must change the directory in ``include`` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you use the appstarter installation. If using manual installation, you must change the directory in ``include`` path.
```
